docs: Module 3 Messages and Modules (B9lab updates 2-1) (#800)
cosmos/sdk-tutorials: b9lab-content/3-main-concepts/08-modules.md

* **Capabilities:** Most modules need to read and/or write to the store(s) of other modules. However, in an open-source environment, some modules could be malicious. That is why module developers need to carefully think not only about how their module interacts with other modules but also about how to give access to the module's store(s). The Cosmos SDK takes a capabilities-oriented approach to inter-module security. This means that each store, defined by a module, is accessed by a key, which is held by the module's keeper. This keeper defines how to access the store(s) and under what conditions it is possible. The module's store(s) is accessed by passing a reference to the module's keeper.

## Recommended folder structure

These ideas are meant to be applied as suggestions. Application developers are encouraged to improve and contribute to the module structure and development design.

### Structure

> A typical Cosmos SDK module can be structured as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A typical Cosmos SDK module can be structured as follows. A folder named `proto` to contain all the data types defined with Protobuf:
```
@CitMC

```shell
proto
└── {project_name}
    └── {module_name}
        └── {proto_version}
            ├── {module_name}.proto
            ├── event.proto
            ├── genesis.proto
            ├── query.proto
            └── tx.proto
```
Whereas:

* `{module_name}.proto`: the module's common message type definitions.
* `event.proto`: the module's message type definitions related to events.
* `genesis.proto`: the module's message type definitions related to the genesis state.
* `query.proto`: the module's query service and related message type definitions.
* `tx.proto`: the module's `Msg` service and related message type definitions.

> <!-- Here an introductory clause to the code is missing --> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A folder for your module(s)' code, which you structure as follows:
```
@CitMC

In summary, modules define most of the logic of Cosmos SDK applications.

![transaction message flow to modules](./images/module_overview.png)

When a transaction is relayed from the underlying Tendermint consensus engine, `BaseApp` decomposes the `Messages` contained within the transaction. `BaseApp` routes messages to the appropriate module for processing. Interpretation and execution occurs when the appropriate module message handler receives the message.

Developers compose modules together using the Cosmos SDK to build custom application-specific blockchains.

## Module Scope

Modules include **core** functionality that provides the basic functionality every blockchain node needs:

* a boilerplate implementation of the Application Blockchain Interface (ABCI) that communicates with the underlying Tendermint consensus engine
* a general-purpose data store that persists the module state called `multistore`

> * a server and interfaces to facilitate interactions with the node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* a server and interfaces to facilitate interactions with other modules.
```
Is this supposed to be with other modules? Or what is meant by interactions with the node

Modules implement the majority of application logic while **core** attends to wiring and infrastructure concerns and enables modules to be composed into higher-order modules.

A module defines a subset of the overall state using one or more key/value stores, known as `KVStore`, and a subset of message types that are needed by the application and do not exist yet. Modules also define interactions with other modules that do already exist.

For developers, most of the work involved in building an SDK application revolves around building custom modules required by their application that do not exist yet, and integrating them with modules that do already exist into one coherent application.

## Module Components

> It is a best practice to define a module in the `x/moduleName` folder, not to be confused with the SDK’s `x/` folder that already exists. For example, the module called Checkers would go in `x/Checkers`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is a best practice to define a module in the `x/moduleName` folder, not to be confused with the SDK’s `x/` folder that already exists. For example, the module called Checkers would go in `x/checkers`.
```

* **Protobuf**: one `Msg` service to handle messages and one `gRPC` Query service to handle queries.
* **Keeper**: Defines the state and presents methods for updating and inspecting the state.

### Interfaces

Modules implement three application module interfaces:

* **AppModuleBasic**: implements non-dependant elements of the module
* **AppModule**: interdependent, specialized elements of the module that are unique to the application
* **AppModuleGenesis**: interdependent, genesis (initialization) elements of the module that establish the initial state of the blockchain at inception.

`AppModule` and `AppModuleBasic` are defined in `module.go`.

### Protobuf Services

Each module defines two Protobuf services:

* **Msg**: a set of RPC methods related 1:1 to Protobuf request types to handle messages
* **Query**: gRPC query service to handle to queries

<HighlightBox type="info">
See here for an introduction to Protobuf services if the topic is new to you: [https://www.ionos.com/digitalguide/websites/web-development/protocol-buffers-explained/](https://www.ionos.com/digitalguide/websites/web-development/protocol-buffers-explained/)
</HighlightBox>

> ### Msg Service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Msg Service
```

* A best practice is to define the `Msg` Protobuf service in the `tx.proto` file.
* Each module should implement the `RegisterServices` method as part of the `AppModule` interface.
* Service methods should use a “Keeper” that defines the storage layout and presents methods for updating the state to implement state updates.

> ### gRPC Query Service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### gRPC Query Service
```

<HighlightBox type=”info”>
gRPC-gateway documentation: [https://grpc-ecosystem.github.io/grpc-gateway/](https://grpc-ecosystem.github.io/grpc-gateway/)
</HighLightBox>

### Command-Line Commands

Each module defines commands for a command-line interface (CLI). Commands related to a module are defined in a folder called `client/cli`. The CLI divides commands into two categories, transactions and queries, defined in `tx.go` and `query.go` respectively.

### Keeper

Keepers are the gatekeepers to the module’s store(s). It is mandatory to go through a module’s keeper in order to access the store(s). A keeper contains the layout of storage within the store and methods to update and inspect it.

Other modules may need access to a store, but other modules are also potentially malicious. For this reason, developers need to consider who/what should have access to their module store(s). Only modules that hold the Key to a store can access the store.

Keepers are defined in `keeper.go`. Keeper’s type definition generally consists of keys to the module’s store in the `multistore`, references to other modules’ keepers and a reference to the application’s codec.

## Core Modules

> Cosmos SDK includes core modules that address common concerns with well-solved, standardized implementations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Cosmos SDK includes a set of core modules that address common concerns with well-solved, standardized implementations.
```

    - `codec.go`: The module's registry methods for interface types.
    - `errors.go`: The module's sentinel errors.
    - `events.go`: The module's event types and constructors.
    - `expected_keepers.go`: The module's [expected keeper](./keeper.html#type-definition) interfaces.
    - `genesis.go`: The module's genesis state methods and helper functions.
    - `keys.go`: The module's store keys and associated helper functions.
    - `msgs.go`: The module's message type definitions and associated methods.
    - `params.go`: The module's parameter type definitions and associated methods.
    - `*.pb.go`: The module's type definitions generated by Protocol Buffers (as defined in the respective `*.proto` files above).

## Errors

Modules are encouraged to define and register their own errors to provide better context on failed message or handler execution.
Errors should be common or general errors which can be further wrapped to provide additional specific execution context.

### Registration

Modules should define and register their custom errors in x/{module}/errors.go. Registration of errors is handled via the `types/errors` package.

> Each custom module error must provide the codespace, which is typically the module name (for example, "distribution") and is unique per module, and a uint32 code. Together, the codespace and code provide a globally unique SDK error. Typically, the error code is monotonically increasing but does not necessarily have to be.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each custom module error must provide a codespace, which is typically the module name (for example, "distribution"), and a uint32 code. Together, the codespace and code provide a globally unique SDK error. Typically, the error code is monotonically increasing but does not necessarily have to be.
```
